---
title: "C4DM Seminar:  Peter Meier"
author: "Admin"
date: "2024-09-09"
image: "./placeholder.png"
tags: ["seminars", "events"]
---

### C4DM Seminar: Peter Meier: Real-Time Beat Tracking and Control Signal Generation for Interactive Music Applications
-----------------

#### QMUL, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science

#### Centre for Digital Music Seminar Series

**Seminar by:**   
   Peter Meier

**Date/time:  Monday, 9th September 2024, 2pm**

**Location: GC105, Graduate Centre Building, Mile End Campus, QMUL, E1 4NS **
Zoom: https://qmul-ac-uk.zoom.us/j/2387202947


<b>Title</b>: Real-Time Beat Tracking and Control Signal Generation for Interactive Music Applications
-----------------

<b>Abstract</b>: In this seminar, we will explore the theory and application of a real-time beat tracking system based on the Predominant Local Pulse (PLP) method. We will start by detailing how the traditional PLP algorithm has been transformed into a real-time procedure capable of operating with zero latency. This real-time adaptation not only tracks beat positions but also provides dynamic insights such as beat context, stability, and lookahead predictions for each frame of real-time audio. Following the theoretical overview, we will demonstrate practical applications of the system's outputs. These include the generation of beat-synchronous Low Frequency Oscillators (LFOs) and confidence-based control signals for dynamic manipulation of audio effect parameters in real-time. We will showcase a prototype audio plugin integrated within a Digital Audio Workstation (DAW), highlighting its utility in mixing scenarios and live music performances. Additionally, we will present various audio examples that use our system for controlling different audio effects in sync with the beat of the music.

<b>Bio</b>: Peter Meier is a PhD student at the International Audio Laboratories Erlangen, a joint institution of Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU) and the Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Circuits (IIS) in Germany. Under the supervision of Prof. Meinard Müller, his research focuses on interactive music analysis, aiming to transform offline algorithms into real-time applications for creative music making and educational music gaming. Peter holds a Master's degree in Media Technology with a specialization in Media Informatics from the Deggendorf Institute of Technology in Germany, where he also gained 15 years of experience working as an audio engineer in the university's audio labs. Outside his academic work, Peter is a passionate musician who enjoys singing, drumming, and playing guitar.

<b>Presentation</b>: 
<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Nmd08IZyW1BS-XTUYhDM6uwHRvgN4Hwz/view?usp=share_link">[PDF Slides]</a> 
