---
title: "C4DM Seminar:  Kazunobu KONDO (Yamaha)"
author: "Admin"
date: 2024-09-03
image: "./placeholder.png"
tags: ["seminars", "events"]
---

### C4DM Seminar: Kazunobu KONDO: Introduction of Yamaha Research and Development division and global research internship program
-----------------

#### QMUL, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science

#### Centre for Digital Music Seminar Series

**Seminar by:**   
   Kazunobu KONDO

**Date/time:  Tuesday, 3rd September 2024, 1.30pm**

**Location: GC601 Montagu LT, Graduate Centre Building, Mile End Campus, QMUL, E1 4NS **
Zoom: https://qmul-ac-uk.zoom.us/j/9798452959


<b>Title</b>: Introduction of Yamaha Research and Development division and global research internship program
-----------------

<b>Abstract</b>: Introducing our research direction, selected research topics, facilities of Yamaha Research and Development division.
Kansei (in Japanese) for music, which is a perceptual perspective of music understanding, is one of our key research quetions.
Music performers listen their own sound when performing in order to describe emotional musical expression.
Therefore, we are analyzing sounds, musical symbols and human behavior to be utilized for AI-powered products.
From September, we will begin accepting for our global internship program for the summer of 2025, in this presentation, the overview of our internship program will be introduced.

<b>Bio</b>: Kazunobu Kondo received the B.E., M.E. and Ph.D. degrees from Nagoya University, Japan, in 1991, 1993, and 2014, respectively.
He joined the Electronics Development Center, Yamaha Co., Ltd. in 1993.
He is currently a principal engineer of Yamaha Research and Development Division.
His research interests include blind source separation, noise reduction, and dereverbetation.
He is a member of the IEICE, the Acoustical Society of Japan and the Audio Engineering Society, and an editorial board member of the Journal of the Audio Engineering Society.
