---
title: "C4DM Seminar: Pipa Performative Score Dataset Construction based on Intelligent Installation and Computer Vision"
author: "nicolaus625"
date: "2025-02-10"
image: "./placeholder.png"
tags: ["seminars", "events"]
---

---

### C4DM Seminar: Pipa Performative Score Dataset Construction based on Intelligent Installation and Computer Vision
-----------------

#### QMUL, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science

#### Centre for Digital Music Seminar Series

**Seminar by:**   
   Dr. Rongfeng Li

**Date/time:  Monday, 10 February, 14:30**

**Location: G2, Engineering Building, Mile End Campus, QMUL, E1 4NS **
Zoom: not available

<b>Title</b>: Pipa Performative Score Dataset Construction based on Intelligent Installation and Computer Vision
-----------------

<b>Abstract</b>: 
This study addresses the limitations of AI models in analyzing traditional music, particularly in Western classical, by focusing on the intertwined composition and performance aspects of Chinese music. Using the Pipa, a Chinese string instrument, an Arduino-based system captures real-time finger techniques and string touches. Computer vision algorithms complement this by analyzing performance videos to extract note movements and playing techniques. This approach has resulted in an hour of Pipa performance data being converted into a detailed performative score, enriching AI’s capability in music digitization. These intelligent devices and recognition algorithms are instrumental for future AI-driven analysis of traditional music performances.

NB: the pipa is a Chinese instrument that is similar to a lute.

<b>Bio</b>: 
Li Rongfeng: Associate Professor, Master's Supervisor of the School of Digital Media and Design Art, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, a member of the Art and Artificial Intelligence Committee of the Chinese Association for Artificial Intelligence, and a member of the Future Science and Technology Committee of the Chinese Musical Instrument Association. In 2012, he graduated from the Artificial Intelligence Group of the Institute of Network and Information Systems, School of Information Science and Technology, Peking University, with a doctorate degree. His research fields include music technology, machine learning, etc. He has hosted the research work of the “Machine Learning-based Automatic Translation of Chinese Gong Chi Music” project funded by the Ministry of Education’s Social Science Fund and results were published onhttp://jiugong.chimusic.net. The "Tianxia Musical Instrument" project he cooperated with the China Conservatory of Music and the "AI Solfeggio" project in cooperation with the Central University For Nationalities have been online.
