---
title: "Connecting two continents: Immersive Audio Research in Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) and Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT)"
author: "nicolaus625"
date: "2024-02-11"
image: "./placeholder.png"
tags: ["seminars", "events"]
---

---

### C4DM Seminar: PConnecting two continents: Immersive Audio Research in Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) and Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT)
-----------------

#### QMUL, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science

#### Centre for Digital Music Seminar Series

**Seminar by:**   
   Dr. Sungyoung Kim

**Date/time:  Tuesday, 13:30-14:30 on 11th Feb**

**Location: G2, Engineering Building, Mile End Campus, QMUL, E1 4NS **
Zoom: not available

<b>Title</b>: Pipa Performative Score Dataset Construction based on Intelligent Installation and Computer Vision
-----------------

<b>Abstract</b>: 
Immersive audio is experiencing a rapid boom across various fields, driven by AI advancements that open new possibilities in areas such as auditory attention and aural heritage preservation. This presentation explores the researcher's journey across Japan, the U.S., and Korea, highlighting how auditory immersion has fostered interdisciplinary collaborations and generated new insights. Key projects include aural heritage preservation of world heritage sites in Peru and traditional temples in Korea, neural decoding of a listener’s spatial attention, and the development of a game-based auditory training program for hard-of-hearing listeners. The presentation will also introduce a new collaborative initiative aimed at integrating sound recording, music, neuroscience, and AI to further explore the transformative potential of immersive audio in future research and applications.


<b>Bio</b>: 
Sungyoung Kim received a B.S. degree from Sogang University, Korea, and Master of Music and Ph.D. from McGill University, Canada. Currently, he works for the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) and Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) as an associate professor. His research interests are rendering and perceptual evaluation of spatial audio, digital preservation of aural heritage, and auditory training for hearing rehabilitation. He leads the Applied and Innovative Research for Immersive Audio (AIRIS) laboratory (https://airislab.kaist.ac.kr/ ).
