---
title: "C4DM Seminar: Domestic Data Streamers"
author: "Admin"
date: 2025-05-21
image: "./placeholder.png"
tags: ["seminars", "events"]
---

### C4DM Seminar: Domestic Data Streamers: Fighting Indifference Towards Data
-----------------

#### QMUL, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science

#### EECS Seminar & Centre for Digital Music Seminar Series

**Seminar by:** Domestic Data Streamers

**Date/time:**  Wednesday, 21st May 2025, 12:30pm

**Location:** G2, Engineering Building, Mile End Campus, QMUL, E1 4NS

**Zoom:** https://qmul-ac-uk.zoom.us/j/9066549084

<b>Title</b>: Fighting Indifference Towards Data
-----------------

<b>Abstract</b>:
Numbers, data, and statistics are often seen as objective truths, but they can be misleading. They show just a slice of the whole reality and fail to capture the emotional weight of today’s challenges. So, how do we cultivate empathy when the problems we face are so interconnected, overwhelming, and global in scale? In this talk, we will explore some humble experiments done to overcome this lack of empathy through art, technology, and participatory experiences by Domestic Data Streamers.

<b>Bio</b>: 
Domestic Data Streamers is a research and design studio partnering up with organisations to build change through data, community, and arts. Domestic Data Streamers was founded on the 28th of September of 2013 with a simple idea: That the world couldn’t be understood without numbers, but it wouldn’t be understood with numbers alone. We believe that any meaningful interchange of information between people needs to carry emotions and experiences to create knowledge or change. Since then, we have had the chance to bring this idea all over the world, from schools to prisons, from churches to corporate headquarters, and even to the United Nations General Assembly.<br>
https://www.domesticstreamers.com/
