---
title: "C4DM & AIL Seminar: Rodrigo Constanzo"
author: "Admin"
date: 2025-01-24
image: "./placeholder.png"
tags: ["seminars", "events"]
---

### C4DM & AIL Seminar: Rodrigo Constanzo: Hitting Laptops With Drumsticks: Approaches to Performing With Drums and Electronics
-----------------

#### QMUL, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science
#### Imperial College London, Dyson School of Design Engineering

#### Centre for Digital Music Seminar Series
#### Augmented Instruments Lab Open Seminars

**Seminar by:**   
   Rodrigo Constanzo (Royal Nothern College of Music)

**Date/time:  Friday, 24th January 2025, 11am**

**Location: Boardroom (Ground floor, opposite side to the café), Dyson School of Design Engineering, Imperial College London (South Kensington Campus) **

YouTube Link: https://www.youtube.com/live/UlILHqq3aXs?si=hdisHl9UqtgZMq9d

<b>Title</b>: Hitting Laptops With Drumsticks: Approaches to Performing With Drums and Electronics
-----------------

<b>Abstract</b>: Rodrigo Constanzo will present some of his recent work using drums and electronics covering a range of topics including audio analysis, meta-instrument design, machine learning, and absolute position tracking on a drum head.

<b>Bio</b>: Rodrigo Constanzo makes art. He thinks this is an important thing to do. The art he makes is generally smeared in time, in the form of music. He improvises and acts as an antennae to the beauty, electricity, and endless surprise that is living a crazy life. He composes and tries to create new sounds, interactions and behaviors that he find interesting and challenging. He performs his own music and the music of others on a variety of instruments, with close friends. He believes in magic. He believes in sharing things. He believes in teaching. He believes in openness. He loves sweet jams, and avoids speaking with a complicated vocabulary as much as possible. He tries to live as presently and honestly as possible.
