---
title: "C4DM Seminar: Masataka Goto -- Advancing Music Experience Through Music Information 
author: "Yinghao Ma"
date: 2025-11-05
image: "./placeholder.png"
tags: ["seminars", "events"]
---

### C4DM Seminar: Masataka Goto: Advancing Music Experience Through Music Information Research
-----------------

#### QMUL, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science

#### Centre for Digital Music Seminar Series

**Seminar by:** Masataka Goto

**Date/time:**  Wednesday, 5th Nov 2025, 3.00pm

**Location:** Mile Eng campus, Eng building, G2


<b>Title</b>: Advancing Music Experience Through Music Information Research
-----------------

<b>Abstract</b>: 
Music technologies will open up new ways of enjoying music, both in terms of creating and appreciating music. In this talk, I will discuss how music information research can enrich music experiences by introducing examples of our research outcomes. For example, "Lyric Apps" offer a new form of lyric-driven visual art, dynamically rendering different visual content based on user interaction. After releasing "TextAlive App API", a web-based framework for creating lyric apps, which has received several awards including at ACM CHI 2023, we have held annual programming contests since 2020. Another example is "Kiite Cafe", a web service that allows users to get together virtually to listen to music. It lets users enjoy the same song simultaneously while reacting in real time, creating a shared listening experience, and has also received multiple awards. In the future, further advances in music information research will make interactions between people and music more active and enriching.



<b>Bio</b>: 
Masataka Goto received the Doctor of Engineering degree from Waseda University in 1998. He is currently the Senior Principal Researcher at the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Japan. Over the past 33 years, he has published more than 350 papers in refereed journals and international conference proceedings and has received 76 awards, including several best paper awards, best presentation awards, the Tenth Japan Academy Medal, and the Tenth JSPS PRIZE. He has served as a committee member of over 140 scientific societies and conferences, including as the General Chair of ISMIR 2009 and 2014 and the Program Chair of ISMIR 2022.
