---
title: "C4DM Seminar: Julie Meyer"
date: 2026-05-27
image: "./Julie_Meyer_photo.jpg"
tags: ["seminars", "events"]
---


### C4DM Seminar:  Adaptation and generalization to head-related transfer functions
-----------------

#### QMUL, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science

#### Centre for Digital Music Seminar Series

**Seminar by:** Julie Meyer

**Date/time:**  Wednesday, 27st May 2026, 3 pm

**Location:** G2, Engineering Building, Mile End Campus, Queen Mary University of London

<b>Title</b>: Adaptation and generalization to head-related transfer functions
-----------------

<b>Abstract</b>: Adaptation to altered or non-individual head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) has been widely studied in individuals with normal hearing. Studies have shown that after an adaptation period, individuals can significantly improve their sound localization performance with altered auditory cues. Recently, it has been shown that after training with one set of HRTFs, improvements can also be observed with another set, a phenomenon referred to as generalization. This talk will discuss the two phenomena of adaptation and generalization to HRTFs, presenting findings from two recent studies and relating them to earlier work in the field.

<b>Bio</b>: Julie received a BSc in Physics in 2013 and a MSc in Engineering Sciences in 2015 from Sorbonne University (Paris, France). Between 2015 – 2017, she worked in industry as a consultant for Nagata Acoustics before completing a DSc in Computer Science in 2022 from Aalto University (Espoo, Finland). Her dissertation topic landed at the intersection between computational acoustics and perceptual audio evaluations in the context of binaural rendering. From 2023 – 2025, Julie was a postdoctoral research associate at Imperial College London and joins King's College London as a lecturer in 2025. Her current research focuses on spatial audio rendering methods, immersive audio, and psychoacoustics experiments for audio augmented reality applications. 
